README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# Steam Completionist Optimizer
### A Local Achievement Tracking Dashboard

<img src="Project_Dashboard.jpg" alt="Steam Completionist Dashboard" width="800" style="border-radius: 10px; box-shadow: 0px 0px 20px rgba(0,0,0,0.5);">

<p></p>

![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/css3-%231572B6.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)
![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/flask-%23000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=flask&logoColor=white)

A real-time, local web dashboard that tracks your Steam achievement progress. It analyzes global player statistics to suggest the **"Optimal Route"** (easiest achievements first) and provides visual "Toast" notifications when you unlock an achievement in-game.

</div>

---

## Key Features

| Feature | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Real-Time Polling** | Automatically polls the Steam API every 10 seconds to detect in-game unlocks without refreshing the page. |
| **Optimization Algorithm** | Sorts incomplete achievements by "Global Rarity," intelligently suggesting the most common (easiest) achievements to target next. |
| **Schema Translation** | Maps raw developer API codes (e.g., `E1INTRO`) to human-readable titles and descriptions using the Game Schema. |
| **Game Switcher** | Built-in search bar allows you to find and switch games instantly without needing to look up manual App IDs. |

---

## Repository Structure

```text
steam-completionist-optimizer/
│
├── Completionist.py      # Flask Backend (API, Data Fetching & Logic)
├── templates/
│   └── index.html        # Frontend HTML Structure
└── static/
    ├── style.css         # Styling (Lunar Color Palette and Animations)
    └── script.js         # Frontend Logic (Polling, Search, & UI Updates)
```

---

## Quick Start  
### 1. Clone the Repository  
```Bash
git clone [https://github.com/yourusername/steam-completionist-optimizer.git](https://github.com/yourusername/steam-completionist-optimizer.git)
cd steam-completionist-optimizer
```  

### 2. Install Dependencies  
```Bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install required packages
pip install flask requests
```  
### 3. Configuration  
Open Completionist.py in your text editor and update the constants at the top:  

```Python
# Completionist.py

STEAM_API_KEY = 'YOUR_ACTUAL_STEAM_API_KEY'
DEFAULT_STEAM_ID = 'YOUR_ACTUAL_STEAM_ID'
```  
### 4. Run the Application  
```Bash
python Completionist.py
```  
The dashboard will start at http://127.0.0.1:5000  

---  

## Challenges Solved    
``Data Normalization & Schema Mapping``
> *Challenge:* Older games (like Grand Theft Auto IV) do not send readable titles via the standard GetPlayerAchievements endpoint. Instead, they return internal developer codes (e.g., E1INTRO, HALF_MILLION), making the dashboard unreadable.
>
> *Solution:* I implemented a secondary fetch sequence in Python. The backend first retrieves the user's progress, then queries the Steam Game Schema to create a translation map. This map dynamically replaces the raw codes with localized English titles and descriptions before sending the JSON payload to the frontend, ensuring a professional user experience for legacy titles. Now it went from internal developer codes to its real achievement title (e.g., from OPENEDALDERNEY to Full Exploration).

Commit message:

Update project description in README.md
Removes Guessworks and ensures maximum progress per sessions.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# Steam Completionist Optimizer
### A Local Achievement Tracking Dashboard

<img src="Project_Dashboard.jpg" alt="Steam Completionist Dashboard" width="800" style="border-radius: 10px; box-shadow: 0px 0px 20px rgba(0,0,0,0.5);">

<p></p>

![CSS3](https://img.shields.io/badge/css3-%231572B6.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54)
![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/flask-%23000.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=flask&logoColor=white)

A real-time, local web dashboard that tracks your Steam achievement progress. It analyzes global player statistics to suggest the **"Optimal Route"** (easiest achievements first) and provides visual "Toast" notifications when you unlock an achievement in-game. Removes **Guessworks** and ensuring **maximum progress** per sessions.

</div>

---

## Key Features

| Feature | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Real-Time Polling** | Automatically polls the Steam API every 10 seconds to detect in-game unlocks without refreshing the page. |
| **Optimization Algorithm** | Sorts incomplete achievements by "Global Rarity," intelligently suggesting the most common (easiest) achievements to target next. |
| **Schema Translation** | Maps raw developer API codes (e.g., `E1INTRO`) to human-readable titles and descriptions using the Game Schema. |
| **Game Switcher** | Built-in search bar allows you to find and switch games instantly without needing to look up manual App IDs. |

---

## Repository Structure

```text
steam-completionist-optimizer/
│
├── Completionist.py      # Flask Backend (API, Data Fetching & Logic)
├── templates/
│   └── index.html        # Frontend HTML Structure
└── static/
    ├── style.css         # Styling (Lunar Color Palette and Animations)
    └── script.js         # Frontend Logic (Polling, Search, & UI Updates)
```

---

## Quick Start  
### 1. Clone the Repository  
```Bash
git clone [https://github.com/yourusername/steam-completionist-optimizer.git](https://github.com/yourusername/steam-completionist-optimizer.git)
cd steam-completionist-optimizer
```  

### 2. Install Dependencies  
```Bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install required packages
pip install flask requests
```  
### 3. Configuration  
Open Completionist.py in your text editor and update the constants at the top:  

```Python
# Completionist.py

STEAM_API_KEY = 'YOUR_ACTUAL_STEAM_API_KEY'
DEFAULT_STEAM_ID = 'YOUR_ACTUAL_STEAM_ID'
```  
### 4. Run the Application  
```Bash
python Completionist.py
```  
The dashboard will start at http://127.0.0.1:5000  

---  

## Challenges Solved    
``Data Normalization & Schema Mapping``
> *Challenge:* Older games (like Grand Theft Auto IV) do not send readable titles via the standard GetPlayerAchievements endpoint. Instead, they return internal developer codes (e.g., E1INTRO, HALF_MILLION), making the dashboard unreadable.
>
> *Solution:* I implemented a secondary fetch sequence in Python. The backend first retrieves the user's progress, then queries the Steam Game Schema to create a translation map. This map dynamically replaces the raw codes with localized English titles and descriptions before sending the JSON payload to the frontend, ensuring a professional user experience for legacy titles. Now it went from internal developer codes to its real achievement title (e.g., from OPENEDALDERNEY to Full Exploration).
